# Talking-Picture-List-Android-App

The Talking Picture List app allows the user to associate a text description with each image in the phone's mediastore, and have that text spoken while viewing the image. The app has an SQLite database that has an entry for each image, holding a reference to the image and the descriptive text.

The app starts by selecting a random song from the phone's audio library and playing it (if there are no songs in the library then fallback to a raw resource that is included in the app). While the music is playing a list of the images and their descriptive texts is shown on the screen. Each list element must show a micro-thumbnail of the image and the descriptive text. When the user clicks on an element of the list the song is paused, the descriptive text (if any) is spoken, and a dialog is raised showing the full size image. The dialog must have a "Dismiss" button to close the dialog. When the dialog is closed song is resumed. If the decrsiption is still being spoken when the dialog is dismissed the speaking is stopped. A long click on an element of the list must start a new activity that shows the picture and allows the user to edit the text. The new text is returned to the list viewing activity to update the database and the list view.

In order to ensure all images in the phone's mediastore are also in the app's database, the app should scan through the images when it is started and add entries for any that are missing. If at any stage a thumbnail or image is missing (e.g., because the user deleted it using the phone's Gallery app) then that entry in the database must be deleted.
